OK, this is Ron Schorn about to interview Wes
Traub. Wes, count down from 10 or something. 10, 9,
8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. OK, this is Thursday, April 22,
1983. And this is Ron Schorn interviewing Wes
Traub at the Center for Astrophysics here in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. OK, Wes, your name is?
Wesley Traub. And when were you born? 1940. Where?
Wisconsin, Milwaukee. How did you first get
interested in astronomy? Oh, well, I guess I was
interested in astronomy like most kids. It's just
interesting. But the thing that really
interested me, I remember when I was a teenager,
was spectroscopy, strangely enough. I mean, the
idea of being able to measure the property of
something that was far away by looking at the
spectra, you know, Fraunhofer lines and all that
sort of stuff. How did you learn about that? Book in
the library, go to the Adler Planetarium or what?
Well, we didn't have any planetariums,
planetaria. It must have been from books, yeah.
Where did you go to undergraduate school? I went to
the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee for...
Undergraduate four years. Your major was?
Physics. Actually, the physics, the major was
complicated. It was called Applied Math and
Engineering Physics. But it was basically lots of
math and physics. And it was great because I didn't
have to take any other courses. I didn't have to
take any languages, hardly any English. I could
take math courses all day. Where did you go to grad
school? I went to the University of Wisconsin at
Madison, the physics department. And I... was
lucky enough then to meet up with
Julian Mack, who was a a spectroscopist working on
atomic spectroscopy, and was someone who was
present in the late 20s and early 30s for the
beginning of quantum mechanics. And near the end
of his career, he was my professor at Wisconsin. So
the stuff that I kind of liked, I just sort of lucked
into at Madison. At that time, were you thinking of
becoming an astronomer or were you going to be a
physicist? Oh, no. What I was going to do then was to
go into business with my father, who ran a lumber
company, because I didn't know that people did
this for a living. By the way, what year did you get
your bachelor's and what year did you get your
Ph.D.? Okay, bachelor's degree was in 1962, and
Ph.D. was in 68, in physics. What was your
dissertation on, by the way? Our thesis was on the
abundance of lithium in sunspots.
This was in the physics department, but the
astronomy department was right upstairs, and so
there was communication.
a piece of equipment that had been invented at
Wisconsin called a Pepsios interferometer. This
was made up out of three Fabry-Perot
interferometers put in series so that the light
would come through each one of them, one after the
other, and selectively isolate narrower and
narrower bands of light Then you would scan the
instrument from one wavelength to another by
changing the air pressure in between the plates of
the Fabry-Perot's. This is a wonderful
instrument because it had all of the étendue, the
light collecting power area and solid angle
product of Fabry-Perot's. which meant that for
astronomy, you could put a circular object at the
entrance, not a slit, but a round aperture, like a
star or a planet or the sun, part of the sun, and get
all the light through the instrument at very high
resolution. It had spectral resolutions of
500,000 to a million in that range. When you
finished your PhD, where did you get your first job
and why? I got my first and last job here at the
Smithsonian. And the connection was that while I
was working on my thesis, there was Nat Carlton out
here at the Smithsonian who had been working in the
physics department at Harvard and also
interested in Earth's upper atmospheric
properties, became interested in planetary
atmospheres early in his career by transitioning
from the Earth's upper atmosphere to planetary
atmospheres. And this was in the days before.
well, 1968. It was in the days before much was known
about abundances in planetary atmospheres. And
in particular, the problem that he noticed was
that the
atmosphere of Mars was not well characterized.
The pressures on Mars were postulated to be
anywhere over a range of about 1,000 in surface
pressure, and there just simply were no
measurements that were highly reliable. And it
was his thought, his idea, that this Pepsios
interferometer could be used in the
near-infrared, around 1 micron, to look at
absorption lines of CO2 in the Martian
atmosphere, and we could measure the abundance of
CO2 that way. So while I was a graduate student, I
came out here to the Smithsonian and helped set up
and invent some of the materials for a pepsiose to
be used in the near-infrared. And that experiment
was set up at the Agassiz telescope, 61-inch
telescope in Harvard, Mass. And the experiment
was run simultaneously while I was a graduate
student. We learned how to focus this thing in the
infrared. and get it to measure the absorption
lines on Mars. Who paid your bills at that time? Was
it NASA? This was a NASA grant from, I think, yeah,
from Planetary. I'd have to look back. Yeah, it was
a bill. Bill Brunk was the person that we dealt with
then, yeah, and for several years thereafter. Had
Nat gotten this grant started before you came on
board? It was about simultaneous. He got the money
about the same time I came, and the grant was to pay
for me to come here and to do this work, to buy the
equipment. Yes? What about the, you mentioned the
planetary atmospheres, not too much was known
about them that you could really count on. Let's
say the nose cone people, the reentry vehicle
people could really take the hard stuff. Right,
yeah. I mean, the issue here, excuse me, I should
have said, the issue about Mars was a probe was to be
sent there, and the question was, do you need a
reentry vehicle? Could you use a parachute? How do
you get something down to the surface of the
planet? And so you wanted to know what the pressure
was. That was the immediate practical problem. Go
ahead, yeah. What about the state of the art of
planetary astronomy in general when you came in?
Was it pretty anti-Diluvian, pretty primitive
compared to now? Well, there was a remarkable
amount that was not known. I hadn't worked in
planetary astronomy before this. physics
laboratories doing atomic spectroscopy. And the
sun was my major experience outside the
laboratory. So I learned about planetary
atmospheres. And so it didn't seem ancient to me or
outmoded. It just seemed like what was. You always
think that things are the way they are. You don't
think, my god, why don't people know any better?
These were hard experiments to do. And so to us, it
was obvious then that nobody could have done a
better experiment before. How many different
major NASA contracts have you had? Not every year,
but, you know, we worked on Pepsi Olsen, then we did
this and stuff like that. Oh, a few, maybe
four or five. The major ones that I remember are
that we worked on this one grant, which extended
for six, seven years, something like that, to work
on planetary atmospheres. And we worked on many,
many different aspects of planetary atmospheres
and branched out and did things like interstellar
lines and a lot of other stuff from that base. And
actually, my planetary experience extends
from... The first published paper was in 72, and
the last one really was in 79. So that was the period
in which we were using that grant to work. And after
that, I became more interested in infrared and
other things, and I started Working with other
NASA grants for other purposes. Run out of
planets? There's plenty of stars. Well,
actually, I moved from doing that to doing far
infrared spectroscopy with a Fourier transform
spectrometer. And part of the reason, well, this
is getting ahead of the story, but we went to Bill
Brunk. I mean, that was the start of my independent
research work. noticed that there was a lack of
measurement in the far infrared, around 100
micron wavelength, because that part of the
atmosphere is totally absorbing due to water
vapor, rotational absorptions. And there was, at
the time, here at the Smithsonian, a dramatic
experiment that Giovanni Fazio had been running
for a few years. This was a one-meter diameter
telescope that was carried to about 28 kilometers
altitude by large balloons, helium-filled
balloons from Palestine, Texas. And the thought
here was, gee, why don't we build an instrument to
look at spectral lines? Because all that was being
done then was filters, broadband photometric
measurements of planets, among other things,
too. Outer planets we looked at with that
instrument. But I was interested in looking at the
spectra. And so we proposed to the Planetary
Division, to Bill Brunk, in fact, to build an FTS to
go onto this instrument. And one of the things, we
had a number of things that were of interest, but
one of the things was to look at the atmospheres of
Venus and Mars and see there was a whole number of
rotational lines in the far infrared that we
should be able to see there. We did receive the
money. I received the grant, $150,000 to build
this instrument. And we built it and flew it. It
turned out to be a very difficult thing to do to
point this telescope accurately. And so, in fact,
we never ever did use it to record any planetary
spectra. But we went on to look at the Earth's
atmosphere. And my career on atmospheres has
evolved into the Earth's atmosphere then. And
we've done a lot of work since then on the
terrestrial atmosphere. But that's not planets.
That's the Earth. Oh, may I continue on this? Yeah,
it just occurred to me that as an interesting
sidelight, my interest in planets has followed my
other interests, which are spectroscopy, but
really interferometry. I just am fascinated by
the idea of interfering beams of light. And
another experiment that I've worked on for the
last decade is using high angular resolution
separated telescopes to look at stars and
materials around stars perhaps. And so an
instrument that we have now built on Mount Hopkins
uses telescopes that are separated by up to about
38 meters to do a modern Michelson stellar
interferometer type experiment. And one of the
things that we've been looking at recently is, can
this instrument detect planets around other
stars by looking at the very small wobble that you
would see in the position of the star as it moves
across the sky? It's an incredibly difficult
problem, but it comes back to searching for
planets instead of looking at ones that you know,
and that kind of amuses me. What wavelength is the
uranoprometer after wavelengths? The one at
Mount Hopkins. The Mount Hopkins instrument.
This would be a visible and near-infrared
instrument, visible and K-band instrument. How
was your relationship with NASA when they were
funding? Who's funding you now, by the way, NSF or?
We have a little money through the University of
Wyoming from the NSF for this project.
interferometer project, which is called IOTA for
Infrared Optical Telescope Array on Mount
Hopkins. And there is some other funding for that
project from NASA also, and internally from the
Smithsonian. But the bulk of my funding is for
looking at the Earth's atmosphere, because I run
these two sorts of projects parallel, or run with
them. And the bulk of the funding is from the upper
atmospheric division at NASA to look at the
Earth's atmosphere.
How would you say NASA does when they're giving you
money? Do they butt in? Are they getting worse? Are
they getting better? Do they generally let you do
what you said you were going to do, or what? Feel
free. No, I have nothing but happiness to report on
that. I mean, every experiment that I've been
involved with in the planetary division and in the
upper atmospheric division, we've proposed to do
work. NASA has almost always given us essentially
all of the money that we've asked for. I can't
recall a single case where somebody has come and
said, you ought to be doing this and not that. And on
top of that, after you do the work, I haven't,
nobody's ever come back and said, well, you
promised to do X, Y, and Z, but you only did X and half
of Y because, you know, you always end up sort of
thinking you can do more than you actually do, and
sometimes you do things that you never thought you
would do. So it always amazes me that people never
come along and inventory what you put in your first
proposal and see whether or not that's what you
actually reported three years later. It's
astonishing. I hope they don't start doing it.
There was a comment that I read somewhere that...
By definition, of course, discoveries cannot be
foreseen because someone had been accused by some
government agency of not foreseeing this
discovery. Yes, of course, that's ridiculous.
You know, some people object to having to write
proposals and say, oh, well, this is a lot of busy
work. I think it's a good idea because it helps you
clearly formulate your ideas. You think of things
that you might not have thought about when you're
forced to write it down and defend it in front of
people. And so I don't have any problem with that.
What do you consider the most important piece of
work you've done in planetary astronomy?
Oh, there are several things that really excited
me when I looked at them. The first experiment I did
was to discover oxygen on Mars. And this was a big
thrill because I'd only discovered one other
thing once before in a laboratory setting. And to
go out and actually look through a telescope and
discover a molecule that nobody had ever seen
before was really a very exciting thing for me. And
that was 1972 we published that. That was a
follow-up of the work that had been done on CO2 on
Mars. And so I always remember that fondly,
perhaps because it was the first thing. I don't
know if it was the most important, but it certainly
was fun for me. Okay, that was my next question,
what was the most fun, and you just answered it. Did
you ever... run into any real bogs or morasses or
blind alleys or things where you said, oh, we never
should have tried this or something like that?
Well, there was a whole body of work that we did on
looking at Jupiter and Saturn in lines of methane,
ammonia, methane and ammonia, and hydrogen lines
also. And I guess I have a regret. I mean, it was a
morass in the sense that we took a ton of data on
spectral lines that were not well characterized.
We didn't know what the temperature dependence of
their oscillator strengths was. But we did it in
the hope that these things would be learned later.
Nat Carlton and I spent many, many, many nights at
the 60-inch telescope on Mount Hopkins that he
actually built, and I helped him with a little bit
in those days, taking data on these outer planets
that never really ended up being digested and
published in the kind of form that I would have been
happy with. There are a few reports out, but we saw a
lot of things, like ammonia coming and going, and
many, many things that never really quite got
tidied up the way they should have been and
published. How have NASA's dollars affected
planetary astronomy
in general? Well, I'm not sure how to answer that,
because I actually... Where would we be without
it? Oh, well, unquestionably, none of this stuff
would ever have been done at this level if there
wasn't funding from NASA to do it. I mean, I would
have gone off to work for IBM or something like
that. Well, in fact, that was my other promising
offer. Instead of coming to a much lower-paying
job here at the Smithsonian, doing something that
sounded like a lot of fun. So if it were not for the
NASA support, we would know none of this stuff, I
think, now. Back when you started, were you aware
of any... snobbishness on the part of quote real
unquote astronomers towards people who worked on
the planets oh well yes uh i mean i i'm even more
aware of uh of this well we were talking about
second class status for planetary astronomers
you said you were even more aware of that well well
the thing is i i was a physicist i am a physicist and i
came from the physics department and I learned a
little astronomy by going up and taking a few
courses and reading books, but I wasn't a real
astronomer. And there are real astronomers and
there are outsiders. So I'm perfectly aware of the
fact that real astronomers are different than
people who get into the field by some other back
door, like studying physics. And planetary
astronomy is one of those outside of real
astronomy areas also. But at the Smithsonian
here, we're all coexisting quite happily, and
I've never really had any problems with it. I enjoy
what I'm doing, and other people, I think, respect
what we're doing. Do you think over the last 30
years or so that the planetary astronomers have
managed to get up to about equal status with the
stellar and galactic people? Well, it... No, I
don't think that that's ever the case. I mean, if
you study galaxies and what the distribution of
galaxies is, like some of the people in this
building do, you will always attract much more
attention and be considered to be a real
astronomer by the general public than if you study
planets. I think there's certainly such a great
interest in the part of the general public in
planets because that's where people live and
there might be life that this is, you know, one
doesn't feel like, I don't feel like a second class
citizen having done this sort of thing. Do you
think planetary astronomers have done a good job
publicizing themselves to the general public?
I think that the best publicist in the world for
astronomy was a planetary astronomer. Carl
Sagan, in my opinion, did a wonderful job
publicizing the adventure of astronomy and, of
course, of planetary astronomy and science in
general. I don't think he's appreciated by a lot of
other astronomers or maybe even planetary
astronomers.
I think that Carl has done a wonderful job and that
people really appreciate and enjoy his programs a
lot and that he brought a lot of people very close to
being interested in what goes on at telescopes and
the interpretation of the results from
telescopes. I think he's done a very good job for
it.
That's a very general question. Do you think that
all the new results that have come out on solar
system objects in the last 30 years have affected
the public's ideas to any extent? Talking about
the public that reads, for
example. Well, I mean, yes. I mean, it helps by
knowing more about, well, by knowing, for
example, that there's not life on Mars, but that we
have looked and that there was a possibility and,
well, it didn't pan out. and just the general
intellectual excitement of thinking about
something that's nearby. I think people don't
relate to stars. My personal opinion, the general
public doesn't relate to things that are far away.
They always want to know, well, how does this
affect me? If you tell them what you do and that you
study astronomy or planets, they say eventually
their question is, aside from polite
questions, A lot of people, the bulk of people in
the United States say, well, really, how does this
affect me and why should I be supporting it? That's
what they think deep down inside. And if it's
something that can relate to a person, like
searching for life or looking at other planetary
surfaces that are like the Earth. Or deflecting
killer asteroids. Or deflecting killer
asteroids. Or preventing the ozone hole from
growing or the greenhouse. Well, yes. Now, that's
something that comes incredibly close to home.
Well, it used to be that people would talk about, or
I would say things like, it's of interest to study
other planets, like Venus and Mars, because they
tell you something about the Earth, because
they're very similar, and that we ought to make
these comparative studies. And those are sort of
vague, generalized arguments that I don't think
the general public would buy. But if you discover
all of a sudden that the ozone is disappearing over
the South Pole, and that it might very well start
disappearing over the North Pole, by the year
2000, and that this work has been done by people who
really were all planetary astronomers, well,
almost all planetary astronomers at one time in
their life, then maybe the virtue of what people
had said before, that you should study these other
systems, starts to come home.
Personal question here. Now, I can recall you and
Matt and you and I and Andy and all these fights
about your Pepsios data. What ever went on with all
that? Well, the key thing that sticks in my mind
about Pepsios is that we did a a mind-stretching
experiment with it, which was to measure wind
velocities on Venus. This was a suggestion that
was brought to us by Mike Belton one time when Mike
and Don Hunton came up to visit the Pepsios on Mount
Hopkins. And they looked at this wonderful
instrument and said, gee, you can measure wind
velocities on Venus. And we said, oh, we can? We had
been looking at carbon dioxide lines in the upper
atmosphere of Venus cloud tops. And then we
realized that, yes, of course they're bright.
This is a wonderful experiment. And Nat and I
worked on this for several years. We worked very
hard to try and make sure that there were not any
instrumental biases, because what we were
looking for was a very tiny shift in the wavelength
of a spectral line formed in the atmosphere of
Venus from sunlight. The sunlight bounced off the
top of the atmosphere of Venus. Some of it was
absorbed in a CO2 line. And if the atmosphere was
moving, if there were winds or velocities from
mass motions in the atmosphere, you would see a
small Doppler shift. The Doppler shift would
translate into a wavelength shift that you could
measure on Earth. So we measured Doppler shifts of
these spectral lines at various places on the
planet so that you could compare the light that you
saw reflected from the limb with the light
reflected from the terminator and see if there was
a wavelength shift. And if there was a wavelength
shift, you could attribute that to a rotational
velocity of the upper atmosphere. And we observed
this for several years when Venus was on different
sides of the sun, in different configurations,
under different circumstances, and measured
what I am convinced is a very good measurement of
100 meter per second winds in the upper atmosphere
of Venus. And we published that paper. There
was... Well, this is not my favorite story, but
there was skepticism, mostly, from our good
friend Andy Young, who took it upon himself to
decide that there were a lot of instrumental
effects in this complicated instrument that
could have caused these winds to appear to be
shifting when, in fact, they weren't. I thought
that I had taken out all of these effects by
calibration and repeated measurements uh... and
uh... was convinced that he was wrong but we
invited him up and he came up and worked on the
mountain top with us for a week or so one time the
results unfortunately were inconclusive we were
not able to make experiments which showed that the
instrument did have biases in it but we certainly
were able to make the instrument produce biased
results by pushing hard enough which i knew that
you could do these were not the circumstances
under which the wind velocities were measured The
outcome of that was, I believe, that... And this
I'm not sure about because I don't have it
documented, but I do believe that Andy spoke
against these results to a number of people and
said they can't possibly be measuring wind
velocities there. This is a figment of their
imagination or whatever. The instrument is full
of biases. And... essentially caused these
results not to be widely quoted. I still, to this
day, am absolutely convinced that we did take out
the biases and that we could see these effects and
that we did measure 100 meter per second winds and
that there was absolutely nothing wrong with the
measurements. But I think it's a very unfortunate
thing. Well, for me at least, it's personally
unfortunate that Andy felt so strongly about this
that he went around and told people that these
results were suspect. And in fact, I remember
clearly from one committee meeting that was held
to try and summarize the results of the Venus upper
atmosphere, I had a call one day from somebody who
was responsible for writing up these results.
uh... results uh... jerry schubert and uh... he
said you know that you know we're not gonna mention
these results because uh... we think that they
were contaminated or flawed or something like
that and it was a result of uh... andy's lobbying i
believe i i said the same thing to him but uh... you
know i uh... what can you do you published your
results so that people could then take a crack at
them But the results were never critiqued in a
published paper. There is absolutely no
publication that I'm aware of that said, look, if
you interpret the results this way or that way,
they turn out to be wrong.
I'm going to consider you still a planetary
astronomer because you are looking at the
atmosphere of a planet, although we happen to live
on it. But still, I always print Earth with a
capital E, not a small e, because it's like Mars.
How would you describe the current state of
planetary astronomy? Growing, shrinking,
hanging in there, whatever? You mean including
the Earth or not including the Earth? Both ways. If
you include the Earth, planetary astronomy is
doing wonderfully because there's a lot of effort
and interest in trying to find out what's going on
with the Earth's atmosphere. If you exclude the
Earth, I think there's a terrible problem.
There's very little going on in planetary
astronomy that I'm aware of. They're shutting off
the Venus.
surface Venus radar machine, and the only
instrument that's going to be built now is going
out to Pluto, which barely qualifies as a planet.
But as far as the Earth is concerned, the state of
research is very exciting because we have these
two problems that are clearly in the public mind.
One is of the buildup of carbon dioxide and the
increasing temperature of the Earth, which has
been advocated and promoted most strongly by a
former planetary person, Jim Hansen, at Goddard,
whatever it is in New York City. It's Goddard in New
York. And I happen to think Jim is right. I remember
Jim's original work in looking at the atmosphere
of Venus and discovering from inverting
calculations that the particles in the
stratosphere of Venus had to be spherical globs
with an index of refraction of one point
something, something, something, which was an
absolute. Or three. You know this problem, too.
And just to diverge for a second, I remember this
result so clearly. I thought, this is
astonishing. How could he possibly say that
nothing in nature is ideal like that? That's a
physicist idealization. But he said that this is
really the way it was. And I remember we had a
graduate student. And I put the graduate student
to this problem of saying, look, here's the
handbook of chemistry and physics. Why don't you
look up all the substances that have index of
refraction in this range and see what that could
possibly be? And the student came back and he said,
well, there's sulfuric acid and there's other
stuff. And we sort of chuckled and said, well,
obviously, Very uninformed comment of ours.
Obviously, these clouds could not be made out of
sulfuric acid particles, and sort of dropped it at
that point. And months and a year later, this was
really taken up seriously. I guess that was Louise
Young that came up with that. Louise Young
commented on it. Jeffrey Sill, you were involved,
I think. Yeah, yeah. And so a number of people came
up with it, but it was... It was a major failure on my
part not to follow that up vigorously after that
because it was a very interesting result.
What influence has the private sector had on
planetary astronomy? Well, we actually... have
been funded by private companies to do some
research, in particular on the Earth's
atmosphere. In this case, this was after I had
switched from looking at planets to looking at the
Earth's atmosphere. But if you count the Earth
then, the Chemical Manufacturers Association in
the early 80s funded us for a number of years in
parallel with NASA to augment our NASA funding,
which was not quite enough to do what we would like
to have done, to look at problems in the
stratosphere of the Earth that were basically
things that resulted from chemicals that would be
put into the Earth. This was in the early days of
realizing that it was before there was an ozone
problem, quite clearly. there were issues of
looking at hydrochloric acid, hydrofluoric
acid, and other things that are, well,
hydrochloric acid, the HCL, is generated mostly
by freons that come from the chemicals that are
manufactured by, manufactured for aerosol use.
And we had a good relationship with the CMA in
sponsoring some of our research. And again, just
as with NASA, they gave us the money, we did the work
that we promised to do, but they never came back and
insisted that we do something different or
insisted on reviewing our results before they
were published. They were quite even-handed and
scholarly about it. So we did have some private
research funding, interestingly. Did you ever
have any funding from the Department of Defense?
Not for doing, no. We had no Defense Department
funding for doing planetary work. To switch to a
different topic,
there was quite a bit of thought 20 years ago as to
whether there ought to be a separate planetary sub
in the American Astronomical Society. Now, of
course, there is a division for planetary
studies. Do you think that was a good idea? Oh, I
think it's an excellent idea to have the planetary
division, because if you look at the meeting, look
at the abstracts for the meetings, they have grown
enormously over the years, and there's a lot of
really interesting material. Unfortunately, I
haven't been to a DPS meeting for maybe 10 years. Do
you think that the majority of planetary
astronomers are putting it the other way, the How
much connection is there between people who work
on the planets and people who work on stars and
galaxies? For example, here at CFA. Oh, how much
connection is there? I mean, how do people know
what the other people are doing? Oh. Or do they
care? Very little, I would say. Very little. Yeah.
I think that that's,
I mean, people are, I don't think that there's a
whole lot of cross-fertilization or
cross-interest, really. I wanted to ask you about
Icarus. Icarus is now the premier journal for
planetary astronomy. And 20 or 30 years ago, it was
distinctly second class. How do you think it rates
now against the FJ?
Well, Icarus certainly is a much larger and, I
guess I would say, more carefully refereed and
believable journal than it used to be. The APJ, of
course, has an incredibly high standard.
So I think it's getting up close there. But in the
early days, when a lot of not a lot was, well, it's
surprising because, I mean, there's always not a
lot known about stars. There's also not a lot known
about planets. But a lot of the planetary papers, I
think, were very speculative. And so they weren't
considered to be solid science. But if you think
about it, a lot of the papers on stars and galaxies
are equally speculative or more so. Or cosmology.
But they're printed in a format that makes them
look very so-called scientific, I suppose. Do you
think the idea of having a journal like Icarus is a
good one? Oh, absolutely. I mean, a specialized
journal, well, it's hardly even specialized, but
a journal where you can go and find things that are
relevant to a field or you can pick it up and you can
say, okay, I want to know what's going on in
planetary astronomy these days. You know where to
go and pick it up and leaf through it. I don't think
there's hardly any. I can't remember the last
article that I saw in the AppJ that was a planetary
journal. We've published planetary articles in
the AppJ, but I don't know if anybody ever read
them. It is a self-evident fact that radio
astronomers are a less stuffy bunch than optical
astronomers, and they have their own poker game
that AAS means and all that sort of stuff. Do you
think that planetary astronomers, as a group, are
less pompous and stuffy than stellar and galactic
and cosmological astronomers?
Oh, I can't answer a question like that. I have many
friends in both areas. I don't think that any of
them are really particularly stuffy.